_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I'm Yosuke Ueno, a postdoc researcher (SPDR) at [Superconducting Quantum Computing System Research Unit](https://www.riken.jp/en/research/labs/rqc/superconduct_qtm_comput_sys/index.html), RIKEN Ceter for Quantum Computing.
I'm a visiting researcher at [Keio University](https://sites.google.com/view/kondo-lab/kondo?authuser=0), [the University of Tokyo](http://www.hal.ipc.i.u-tokyo.ac.jp/), and [Kyushu University](https://slrc.kyushu-u.ac.jp/en/).

[Researchmap link](https://researchmap.jp/y-ueno)

[Quantum Papers on Computer Architecture Conferences](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1DEjAtAuG9deEltayrWNTJj5ML0_W1EjDqlCMWpAv9is/edit?usp=sharing) with Japanese short abstractions (As of Oct. 2023)

Research Interest
======
- Quantum computer architecture
- Quantum error correction
- Cryogenic computing using single flux quantum (SFQ) logic

News
======
- [December 29, 2024] Our paper "LSQCA: Resource-Efficient Load/Store Architecture for Limited-Scale Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computing" is accepted by HPCA2025. [[arXiv link]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20486), [Press release [(English)](https://group.ntt/en/newsrelease/2025/03/04/250304a.html) / [(Japanese)](https://group.ntt/jp/newsrelease/2025/03/04/250304a.html)], .
- [December 17, 2024] Our paper "C3-VQA: Cryogenic Counter-based Co-processor for Variational Quantum Algorithms" is accepted by IEEE Transactions on Quantum Engineering (TQE). [[arXiv link]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07847)
- [December 13, 2024] Our new preprint "An Optical Interconnect for Modular Quantum Computers" is now on arXiv. [[arXiv link]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09299)
- [November 26, 2024] Our new preprint "High-Performance and Scalable Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation with Lattice Surgery on a 2.5D Architecture" is now on arXiv. [[arXiv link]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17519)
- [October 13, 2024] Our new preprint "C3-VQA: Cryogenic Counter-based Co-processor for Variational Quantum Algorithms" is now on arXiv. [[arXiv link]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07847)

Commit message:

add online job scheduler arXiv and UT research associate

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I'm Yosuke Ueno, a postdoc researcher (SPDR) at [Superconducting Quantum Computing System Research Unit](https://www.riken.jp/en/research/labs/rqc/superconduct_qtm_comput_sys/index.html), RIKEN Ceter for Quantum Computing.
Also, I'm a Project Research Associate at [the University of Tokyo](https://hal.ipc.i.u-tokyo.ac.jp/en/),.
I'm a visiting researcher at [Keio University](https://sites.google.com/view/kondo-lab/home) and [Kyushu University](https://slrc.kyushu-u.ac.jp/en/).

[Researchmap link](https://researchmap.jp/y-ueno)

[Quantum Papers on Computer Architecture Conferences](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1DEjAtAuG9deEltayrWNTJj5ML0_W1EjDqlCMWpAv9is/edit?usp=sharing) with Japanese short abstractions (As of Oct. 2023)

Research Interest
======
- Quantum computer architecture
- Quantum error correction
- Cryogenic computing using single flux quantum (SFQ) logic

News
======
- [May 16, 2025] I started working as a Project Research Associate at the University of Tokyo.
- [May 13, 2025] Our new preprint "Online Job Scheduler for Fault-tolerant Quantum Multiprogramming" is now on arXiv. [[arXiv link]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.06741)
- [December 29, 2024] Our paper "LSQCA: Resource-Efficient Load/Store Architecture for Limited-Scale Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computing" is accepted by HPCA2025. [[arXiv link]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20486), [Press release [(English)](https://group.ntt/en/newsrelease/2025/03/04/250304a.html) / [(Japanese)](https://group.ntt/jp/newsrelease/2025/03/04/250304a.html)], .
- [December 17, 2024] Our paper "C3-VQA: Cryogenic Counter-based Co-processor for Variational Quantum Algorithms" is accepted by IEEE Transactions on Quantum Engineering (TQE). [[arXiv link]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07847)
- [December 13, 2024] Our new preprint "An Optical Interconnect for Modular Quantum Computers" is now on arXiv. [[arXiv link]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09299)
- [November 26, 2024] Our new preprint "High-Performance and Scalable Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation with Lattice Surgery on a 2.5D Architecture" is now on arXiv. [[arXiv link]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17519)
<!---
<- [October 13, 2024] Our new preprint "C3-VQA: Cryogenic Counter-based Co-processor for Variational Quantum Algorithms" is now on arXiv. [[arXiv link]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07847)
--->
